Hi! My name is Riku Takano. Today, I would like to introduce Social Viewpoint Finder, or SVF.
Social Viewpoint Finder is an interactive network analysis tool.
A strength of SVF is its cluster finding capability.
Let's launch SVF and start visual analytics.
The first example is a Blogosphere at the time of 2004 US presidential election.
This visualization illustrates the inter-blog network
Each node represents a blog site
and an edge represents article citation.
Let me click on a random blog site node.
The URL is shown in this text box.
It reads "urbandemocracy.blogspot".
I think it corresponds to one of the democrats supporters's blog site.
Now, we are starting network analysis.
Firstly we apply filter based on social centrality indices.
We support several important centrality indices.
Let me choose a filter based on closeness centrality.
Then I am adjusting the thresholds values.
Even after filtering, we paint them with faint color so that we can locate the filtered content in its global context.
Now I'm going to drag a node.
When I start dragging, all the nodes start moving. So, please watch the whole image while I am dragging.
Let me drag some more nodes.
As you see, after a few dragging, I have successfully exposed the bipolar networking structure.
Let's examine, what these two clusters represent.
The URL of this node is "unodemocrats.com/blog".
The URL of this node is "blog.johnkerry.com".
The URL of this node is "theblueview.blogspot.com". Blue is the color of the Democrats.
I think that these blog sites support Democrats.
Let's examine the other cluster.
I found a blog site "gopbloggers.org". GOP (Grand Old Party) is a former name of the Republican Party.
The URL of this node is against Hillary. It is clearly anti-Democrats. It must be a supporter of the Republicans.
I found a blog site "blogsforbush.com". This is the supporter of George W. Bush.
I hope you liked Social Viewpoint Finder?
However some of you may not be convinced.
Everybody knows that US political scene consists of two big parties.
You may wonder if SVF can expose unknown structure of an unknown dataset.
We try to answer that question with another the next visual analytics session.
The next example is a reference network of Math-related pages found in Japanese Wikipedia articles.
Each node in this visualization represents a Math article and each edge represents a page reference.
Let me pick an node.
This node represents a page whose title is "Geometry".
This node represents a page whose title is "Ceva's theorem".
Let's investigate the structure of this network
Firstly we apply filtering.
I'm going to apply a filter based on "clustering coefficient".
A clustering coefficient is a measure of the degree to which nodes in a graph tend to cluster together.
Then I'm applying this filter by setting the minimum values.
As we have seen in the previous demo, the filter grays out the filtered nodes and you still can see them painted in faint color.
Now I'm starting the fun part. Dragging!
YES! We are lucky today. The very first dragging exposed a cluster.
You may think that I am searching for a special node.
NO. I am just touching random nodes and try to observe if it is interesting.
From my experience, I learned that dragging a node that is connected to many others tend to cause interesting reshaping of the whole network structure.
In dragging a node, I often move it to an open space, trying to untangle the network structure
Moving a node toward its neighbors direction is also effective when most of the neighbors forms a group. In this case, the move often clarifies the boundary of the cluster.
Let me drag some more nodes.
Now we have identified 4 clusters. Let's find what they represent.
The node titles of this cluster are "digon", "tridecagon", "hexadecagon", ...
They are all names of geometric shape. We found a cluster of geometric shapes.
Let's move on to this cluster. Their titles read "Small Icosihemidodecahedron", "triakis icosahedron", "triakis octahedron", ... 
This seems to be a cluster of solid shapes.
Ok. The cluster we have previously identified seems to be a group of plane shapes.
This cluster contains names "Subgame perfect equilibrium", "Extensive-form game",...
This seems to be a cluster of game theory.
This cluster contains names. Because we are looking at Math-related dataset, this must be a cluster of famous mathematicians.
There still remains some more nodes nodes in the center. If you care about them, please visit our demo site.
This is the end of the demo. I hope you enjoyed the simple but unique and powerful analytic user interface of SVF.
We are waiting for your visit at IUI 18 demo session. See you!
This seems to be a cluster of blog sites supporting Republicans.
This seems to be a cluster of blog sites supporting Democrats.
